## Fairness and Equality in Economic Paradigms

(930-1045, Bryant)

Patro et al., [Incremental Fairness in Two-sided market platforms: on smoothly updating recommendations](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-PatroG.5266.pdf) 

- Focus: personalized recommendations on two-sided platforms
- Terminology:
  - Exposure of producers
  - Relevance score
  - Utility of recommendation
- Tested types of recommendatoin updates
  - Change in relevance scoring model (Amazon-M. Collaborative filtering)
  - Addition of new data (Amazon-D). Factorization model
  - Addition of new features (GoogleLoc-F. Google Maps / places recommendation)
- 69-98% of producers face 100+% change in their exposure / visibility immediately due to the updates. Sudden change in exposure is undesirable.
- An update is incrementally fair if the difference between the exposure distribution is smaller than epsilon. 
- Fairness guarantee: need to guarantee a min utility for customer.
- Method: formulate into an integer programming problem.
- Baseline methods:
  - Canary deployment (phased roll out) (some customers will get less utility than others; unfair to customers.)
  - Intermediate Relevance Function (does not consider producer or customer)

Eiben et al., [Parameterized complexity of envy-free resource allocation in social networks](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-EibenE.5775.pdf) 

- Resource allocation of items. Some items are indivisible. So that no agent envies another one. 
  - (An agent envies another one if the other one has more value than itself)
- Envy-freeness in social networks:
  - Mostly unreasonable to assume agents know complex assignment.
  - Local envy-freeness. Goal: allocate so that no agent directly envies another one.
  - Global envy-freeness: a stronger assumption.
- Envy-free allocation is hard:
  - In a complete social network, allocating resources in a locally envy-free way is NP-hard.
  - For edgeless social network, doing it in envy-free way is also NP-hard
- Parameterized complexity theory:
  - Instead of measuring asymptotic complexity in terms of instance size n, additionally consider a parameter k.
- Resource and agent types
- Social network types
- Results:
  - On their own restricting social graph structure and n. of types  do not yield polynomial time solvability
  - Together restricting social graph structure and number of types yield polynomial time solvability
  - Future work: Parameterized complexity wrt the number of resource types for complete social networks?

Abebe et al., [Subsidy Allocations in the presence of income shocks](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-AbebeR.9353.pdf) 

- Background: poverty, income, shock
- Min-max via binary search.
- An optimal solution: min-sum objective, using knapsack.
- There is a gap between our alg and the income subsidy method which only focuses on income.
- How different are min-sum and min-max objectives? Entirely different solutions.
- Income vs wealth subsidy?

Tziavelis et al., [Fair procedure for fair stable marriage outcomes](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-TziavelisN.3062.pdf) 

- Problem setting: two-sided market where each agent ranks those on the other side by preference.
- Stable marriage: find a perfect matching, such that no pair of agents prefer each other to their matches.
- Gale-Shapley alg is not good enough (optimal match for one side, but pessimal one to the other side)
- Gale-Shapley extension: two-sided proposals.
  - Fair procedures that reach an equitable stable marriage in cubic time.

Lv et al., [Mechanism design with predicted task revenue for bike sharing systems](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-LvH.3279.pdf) 

- Key idea: 
  - Sort users and tasks together.
  - Maintain asub-graph that always has a right-perfect matching
- Incentive compatible, budget feasible, individually rational, computationally efficient, 2-approximate.



## Human and AI 3

(Clinton, 1115-1230)

Evertsz and Thangarajah, [A framework for engineering human/agent teaming system](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-EvertszR.923.pdf) 

- How to engineer MAS (multi-agent system) to support human team members?
- Identify key human/agent teaming parameters
  - Foster team transparency
- Methodology for engineering human/agent teams
  - What artefacts to represent
  - How to represent these artefacts
- TDF: Tactics development framework
- Runtime

Tang and Yang, [Corpus-level end-to-end exploration for interactive systems](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-TangZ.1783.pdf) 

- Retrieval based interactive systems
- Common pipeline:
  - Environment + Action of RL agents.
  - Drawback: most existin gretrieval functions are optimized over precision at top ranks. -> The RL agent do not have a global view of the problem.
  - Non-differentiability of retrieval functions.
- Dynamic Search:
  - Background: Multi-turn information seeking
- Key idea:
  - Maintain global-oriented task
  - The interactions with a human user.
- To represent segments:
  - Option 1: Doc2vec (unable to handle the crowding problem: lower dimensional space may not be able to accommodate all the datapoints from higher dimensional space. Documents may collapse.)
  - Option 2: t-SNE. 
- Differentiable retrieval function (so we can optimize a value network)
- Train the policy network using proximal policy optimization.

De et al., [Regression under human assistance](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-DeA.6571.pdf) 

- Motivation:
  - Societies rely on human experts for import decisions
  - Timelineess and quality of the huan decisions are often compromised by large number of decisions, and shortage of human experts.
  - Let machines automate this procedure.
  - ML is still worse than humans in many cases.
- Goal: develop ML models that are optimized to operate under different automation levels.
  - Take decisions for a given fraction of the instances, and defer to humans for the rest.
  - During training, optimize the machine for this scenario.
- Method: 
  - Ridge regression. See equation (1).
  - Ridge regression becomes a combinatorial problem.
  - This is NP hard
  - Express log l(S) as a difference of submodular functions. Use a heuristic iterative algorithm for submodular optimization.
- Evaluation: This greedy alg consistently outperforms the baselines across almost the entire range of automation levels on all datasets.

Akula et al., [CoCoX: Generating conceptual and counterfactual explanations via fault-lines](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-AkulaA.3605.pdf) 

- Explain decisions made by a CNN
- The features that humans zoon in on when they image an alternative to a model prediction: "fault-lines".
- Identify the "fault-line", the minimal semantic-level features that need to be added / deleted from input image, in order to alter the classification category of image to another specified class.
  - First select highly influential superpixels, and then apply K-means clustering with outlier removal, to form clusters ("explaining concept").
  - Select the fault-line explaining concepts.

Bhardwaj et al., [A human-AI loop approach for joint keyword discovery and expectation estimation in micropost event detection](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-BhardwajA.6889.pdf) 

- Task: event detection on microposts. Given positive labels, unlabeled data. Goal: a binary classifier
- Extract informative keyword and estimate their Expectation.



## Cognitive Modeling 

(Madison, 1400-1530)

Zhang et al., [Machine number sense: a dataset of visual arithmetic problems for abstract and relational reasoning](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-ZhangW.178.pdf) 

- Motivation
  - Human number sense: the cognitive process of numbers and mathematics. Human is able to perform induction of number symbols, is competent in problem solving, and have vision-based cognitive capacity.
- Dataset
  - The MNS dataset: text number sense directly from pixel input. 
  - Requires adaptive hierarchical representation based on context
  - Focus on reasoning and understanding, rather than recognition.
  - Investigate number sense from a cognitive perspective instead of a clinical perspective.
- Dataset generation
  - Generate MNS by parsing and sampling an And-Or Graph (see figure 2)
  - Problem types: combination, composition, partition.
  - Layout component serves as problem context.
- Experiments and analysis
  - Neural Network models 
  - Symbolic search based models.
- Related Work:
  - educational psychology, machine IQ and analogy

Ho et al., [The efficiency of human cognition reflects planned information processing](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-HoM.5623.pdf) 

- Imagine going on a trip
- Partial planning via soft planning
  - Control planning with state-specific inverse temperatures (a.g., attention) over represented states.
  - Partial planning + information theoretic costs

Rostami et al., [Generative continual concept learning](https://aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/2020GB/AAAI-RostamiM.4481.pdf) 

- Inspired by the Parallel Distributed Processing learning and Complementary Learning Systems theories, develop a computational model that is able to expand its previously learned concepts efficiently to new domains using a few labeled samples.


